I thought I was doing something good for
science but in the end it was the worst
thing I could ever have done they
thought they were coming here to take
part in medical testing of a new drug
something went wrong when you take a new
drug into humans for the first time it's
never without risk
[Music]
my whole body just went freezing cold I
started shaking this wasn't something
you could stop everything was happening
all at once
vomiting screaming in pain it was
extremely scary to do with me
we are no way of predicting how severe
is gonna guess there's no rulebook for
how to deal with this there's just a
mystery they thought we look like the
Elephant Man six men remains everybody
wanted to get glimpse of these atrocious
monsters as an ever event it should
never happen it was profound this is
unprecedented it was like a horror movie
with with the way it was set up
something could have been tampered with
sabotage
poison I have never seen anything like
this before
there is an intensive-care fighting for
my life
and someone was responsible for that
[Music]
Perik Selma is a large multinational
contract research organization they had
a site which they leased from Northrop
Park Hospital and they were doing
clinical trials independently from the
hospital on early phase development of
new drugs
[Music]
I was about 31 I just come back from LA
I've been there for two months - in an
acting course for screen I was a really
good time but I'd managed to get a
little bit of debt behind me
a friend of might have done trials and
he said I should sign up they were
offering two thousand pounds and I
thought that was okay
I was interested in the kind of
historical just a scientific
contribution I could be making
when I saw the ad I was like 2,000
pounds for three days work seemed like a
a good deal to me considering I'd done
two previous trials and and it wasn't it
wasn't hard work
when I first arrived at the parasail
unit I was running late I was only 23 so
was a baby and I just finished
University I was in between a couple of
jobs medical trials were kind of like a
get-rich-quick scheme I know brain that
really after we had had some tests done
we received that pile of paperwork
there was a doctor there and he quickly
went through what the drug was going to
be about the drug itself was supposed to
and be able to treat leukemia cgn one
four one two is a type of drug called a
monoclonal antibody it's important to
realize I think that we stand on the
threshold of a revolution in the way
certain types of illnesses particularly
cancers are treated the traditional
approach to treating cancers has been
options such as surgery chemotherapy or
radiotherapy chemotherapy agents as you
probably know are essentially poisons so
TGN 1412 was intended to treat cancers
by educating our own immune system into
dealing with them now that's clearly a
preferable option I thought it's a nice
thing to do these trials because not
only am I getting some cash for
participating but it's helping science
and and it's going to help cure people
further and down the track hopefully
every one of the drugs that we all
commonly use were once first used in
humans they have to go through that
stage before they go into bigger trials
and then into widespread use this was a
drug that had shown great promise in
animal studies and the TGN 1412 trial
was a first in man study and the first
study in humans is about getting to
understand how the body deals with the
medicine how it handles it it was a
first in man study at the time you
didn't really kind of sitting thinking
about how actually how important the
first man's that he is it was never
really discussed in great detail it was
just one point in 10 15 points that was
set out it's important to know that when
one participates in a first in man's
study all that's possible should have
been done in the preclinical studies to
limit any anticipated risk but when you
take a a new drug into humans for the
first time it's never without some risk
we all knew there's a tiny element of
risk but the side-effects work things
like you could end up with hives
you could get anaphylactic shock which
is we can get that from a bee sting and
you can even do a cosmetics trial and
have the same reaction so hey you know
this there's no concern here I don't
ever remember having any second thought
I kind of breeze through and signed off
and quite quickly it was a medicine
being tested in a laboratory situation
approved by the government
[Music]
the trial was a double-blind randomized
controlled trial and that means that
some of the men would have had the
active treatment and two of them will
have had a placebo or dummy treatment
that has no effect
neither the clinicians nor the men
themselves would know who has the active
or inactive treatment there was eight of
us a bit of a mix of nationalities quite
a good mix I think it definitely covered
the bases for men of our age just to get
a good idea of how the body handles the
drug then it's better to have healthy
people usually men because there's
always the risk to reproductive system
of studying women from looking around I
think I worked out that I was probably
the oldest I was 34 years old and I had
lots to look forward to in my life I
just recently gotten engaged we were
planning a nice wedding for family
honeymoon and hopefully children
the drug company looked at the highest
dose without any adverse effects in
monkeys and then they scaled that back
500 fold to give the first dose in
humans giving what they felt was
substantial leeway in terms of safety
[Music]
let's get started number one your first
wit hindsight being the first person to
receive a drug which is the first time
the Newman's yeah probably not the
smartest thing we're gonna get rid of
and administer the copper
[Music]
stop them she's okay
as a medical student I volunteered for
lots of drug trials to make extra money
after I graduated I worked as a junior
doctor in hospitals before joining the
private drugs company that ran trials I
had been involved in more than 300
trials when I was put in charge of
testing a new drug right yeah great all
right come to check on you again in a
few minutes
when you're in the wars or when you have
everything connected to you it gets a
bit more real you know your feelings are
a bit more maybe nervous you kind of
just locked in in the sense that you're
gonna be here now this is where you are
you're not gonna move you know like a
long journey that you're trying to
prepare for and that was the setup then
okay I'm gonna start machine the whole
process is quite quick once they
finished finished with myself they moved
over there and obviously the drug was
still going in at the time I had a
couple of books with me that I was
really looking forward to getting stuck
into and the first side-effect I noticed
would have been a headache and it was
just a slight headache to start with
around about 20 or so minutes after
receiving the drug but then that got
worse and worse and worse and it was not
until the point where it was on the
verge of a full-blown migraine that I
put two and two together and say hey
hang on a second I just had this drug
pumped into me and now I'm cutting at
getting a migraine which I never get I
need to be telling somebody about this I
told the nurse that I'm having a major
headache she arranged a cold compress my
forehead but she didn't give me anything
for it because they don't want anything
to taint the effects of the drug that
they're testing
I know they'd been in the previous ward
and activated their syringe and then
they came into ours
[Music]
machine is going to administer the drug
brian was quite a bit younger than me I
think he must been about 19 or 20 I
think he was saving up for driving
lessons or something
but no he's a nice guy I enjoyed talking
to him I didn't think it would have been
done like such a production line I think
they would have given it and watched and
then the next person and watched but it
seemed like they just gave everybody the
injection with ten minutes pace
the headache got progressively worse - a
migraine but it was slightly different
to a regular migraine whereas it was
coming in waves it would get really bad
didn't it was sort of eased off a little
bit then it got really bad then it
leagues off but over a period of like
minutes it was only a short period of
time
before the incident started to occur I
remember still reading my book and I
hadn't got too far into it David it was
complaining that he was burning up and
his body was getting really hot and his
head was hurting he had to take his top
off because he he just couldn't handle
how hot he was getting I started
thinking is this gonna happen to me yeah
yeah I'm assuming that maybe I'm a bit
slower maybe it's gonna kick in shortly
it was daunting it was it was extremely
scary I'm really surprised that they
didn't stop the trial next door from
what was happening to us they had a
chance to save one or two guys when they
put the syringe onto that mechanical
device okay press go on the machine you
could hear the noise of the syringe pump
as it was infusing us we can just see
this liquid creeping down the clear pipe
and going into your body and it's an
unusual situation knowing those to you
an unknown fluid going into your veins
it's a weird experience
after had given the dose to the seventh
mode a nurse told me one of the men had
headache while dosing the eighth the
nurse returned and told me that the
first man was feeling worse
it was an instant point of like bang
severe back pain in my lower back
it was way worse than the migraine oh
how we doing David oh I was trying my
hardest to twist and turn to find a
position that I could feel less pain I
couldn't understand it
it was so debilitating it was it was
horrible and then the guy who was my
left started saying that he had a
headache and his head was sore and his
back was hurting it's bad as it sounds
it made me feel slightly bitter that I
wasn't going through this on my own
once we've been injected within a minute
or two I was feeling like I had
hypothermia it was a bit like if you
could imagine me and dipped into ice
quite rapidly my whole body just went
freezing cold and I started shaking this
was like this shivering with cold but I
wasn't cold this wasn't something you
could stop it was just so extreme that
it was just horrendous
everybody was failing
[Music]
then they tumbled like dominoes I would
remember being sick into a most big
yellow biohazard bags
it was terrible I must have brought up a
good leader of bile just solid well it
was all manic everything was happening
all at once they were vomiting they were
screaming in pain people fainting they
can control their bowels for some reason
patient three started to think he would
do better if he got out of this place he
was saying things like I don't want the
money anymore I just want to get out
he's just started panicking started
freaking out he was begging he just when
he was saying he wanted to go home he
screaming in pain which was the most
kind of heroin kind of moments because
he was in complete agony
yeah he just freaked he just thought
that they were out together and that he
would do better if he actually got out
of the hospital as if getting out of the
hospital the pain will go away
the wards became chaotic the men were
getting worse
their bodies were in shock there was
chaos the nurses would take him off
guard
I remember the doctors not knowing what
to do
they were probably afraid they probably
hoped it would only last a short time
they weren't expecting it to carry on
and get worse and everything else that
happened
[Music]
it was like a horror movie with the way
it was set up as time was progressing
you're just kind of thinking is this
gonna happen to me it's like going on a
roller coaster you know it's gonna be
scary you're thinking I'll know what am
i doing this why am i doing this they
close the curtains
you're just there left with nothing just
noises I was just like a ghost in the
room this must have just been terrible
for everyone involved
clearly it was catastrophic for the
volunteers but I think it would have
been really scary for the medical staff
as well it's not something you expect to
see in your lifetime doing clinical
trials and suddenly there are people who
are getting extremely ill all around you
it was obvious that there was something
really serious going on
[Music]
I couldn't reach the medical registrar I
ended up running down two flights of
stairs to the intensive care unit and
grabbing the first two dots as I saw
[Music]
I was still unsure what was happening
then one of the nurses came to unplug
everything I was told then to go get
some food and someone would be with me
shortly
I remember just kind of thinking what if
I just sat through just unsure of
everything
[Music]
and I was told to collect my things I
came back and the ward was empty one
minute you're in a wars with patients
who sounded like they fighting for their
lives and then you come back and they're
gone it was so surreal what's going on
what's happening
[Music]
the lights were kept dimmer in there and
I'm pretty sure I was falling asleep and
waking up falling asleep waking up the
whole day where did it go
I felt concerned but I still had a lot
of trust in the company that were doing
this trial I believed that we were safe
and even though it wasn't feeling good I
would never have thought that we were at
death's door
[Music]
it become quite dark outside hours have
passed and then there seem to be a
problem with Ryan all of a sudden some
surgeon guys came up and they threw the
curtain around him I remember them a few
of us were looking at each other like
what's going on here because it's quite
worrying
[Music]
that was when I thought okay we could be
in serious trouble is that what we've
all got to look forward to they been
wheeled him away connected to these
machines that was probably the moment
but I remember thinking this is scary
I wasn't riddled to be on duty that
night I was having supper with my wife
when the phone call came in
my colleague explained the situation a
drug no human and had before an unknown
illness there was six of them one of
them intensive care things were changing
very quickly they were deteriorating in
front of us I said look this is clearly
unprecedented
I'll come in and he said was the effect
of yes that would be that idea although
shorter and more exploited so I walked
through to the intensive care unit where
the first patients had been brought down
looking at him as an intensivist he was
really as unwell as anyone I've seen his
blood pressure was very low and the
settings on the ventilator showed me
that again his lungs have been quite
badly affected we were having to set
things to a fairly high level to keep
him safe and stable so it was clear that
this was a very serious situation but we
also knew there were five more people up
there had received the same drug the
clock was ticking the rate at which they
were deteriorating was very rapid the
doctors from the hospital it was
seriously concerned this was in the
hands of the NHS now and they obviously
have to have got different criteria
they're in it for saving lives not for
making money as well
[Music]
we knew that this was serious there was
a feeling of who's next
then not long after the two guys came to
collect me
I remember saying but why am I being
taken there and he said well you're all
very ill and I remember saying well no
one's gonna die are they he was
reluctant to answer and he was like well
you will see the men all had multiple
organ failure
someone said it looked as though one man
might die and that I might be charged
with manslaughter I felt completely out
of control
I don't remember being moved I just woke
up in a hallway outside of ITU my
temperature was really high apparently
by that stage our organs had started
failing it wanted us to all have this
mask on our face solid on the face it's
because the blood and fluids were
leaking into our lungs how close I was
to dying it's hard to say it's not
something I went out of my way to to
find how it's not something I wanted to
know
[Music]
they were giving in to kidney failure we
had a full intensive care unit that
stage we generated five extra beds in
the recovery area what we didn't have
was enough kidney machines to suddenly
provide extra support so by this stage
of the night there were police vans
criss-crossing
carrying put in from many hospitals all
converging and all hit hard
this was a major incident by now and
things were pretty complex there were a
lot of unknowns there's no rulebook for
how to deal with this looking at them
from the outside they had unstable blood
pressures their breathing was affected
they were developing organ failures they
looked like people who had become septic
this happens I only have blood poisoning
from infection they looked as though
they might have an infection so one of
the possibilities was that the infusions
were contaminated in some way that all
received injections from a batch of
vials so although it would have been
made under sterile conditions there is
always a risk that something could have
happened I kept going back to read the
document that detailed everything known
about the drug it mentioned the unlikely
possibility of a cytokine storm an
extreme immune reaction cytokines are
small proteins involved in the
inflammatory response either to an
injury or to an external infection
cytokine storm is when these become
super active throughout the body leads
to a cascade of activity cells attacking
other cells immune cells attacking a
tissue and that can lead to organ
failure inflammation high temperatures a
very nasty outcome the clinical trials
team told us cytokine release syndrome
is a possible side effect profile for
this drug the treatment for that would
be to give really powerful immune
suppressant drugs high doses of steroids
the trouble was if we did that and
actually this was infection if for some
reason they were all reacting to a
severe infection then we could have made
them worse rather than better so
respected people
a reality check we involved a lot of
people I got a call at 12:04 in the
morning at first I didn't believe him
because I just thought this was so
incredulous to have six healthy
volunteers in a first-in man all at once
being very unwell I mean this is
unprecedented from the signs and
symptoms that my colleague was
describing to me over the phone it was
more consistent with a cytokine release
syndrome by that point in time and it
should be treated as so and aggressively
so but if this was infection then it
would have the opposite effect it would
dampen down the immune system six people
who were fighting with an overwhelming
infection patients could deteriorate to
the point of death
these patients may die so there's really
no margin for error it was a big
decision to take but it's one that we
had to get on with because even the
drugs that we were giving for this would
take time to work so we made the
decision we would treat them as cytokine
release syndrome
so a thousand milligram of steroids is a
significant dose
[Music]
really all we could do is wait and see
it was about 3:30 a.m. and my phone rang
it was one of the nurses and she said
that there being an issue with the drug
trial and I needed to get down to the
hospital as soon as I could
it was really shocking news my heart
kind of raced and I had no idea what was
really happening what you're seeing his
response to that kind of pain that they
tried to deal with because you know one
of the doctors came out and explained
that David was in very serious condition
he said he may look different that what
they had been given was starting to
swell their bodies he just wouldn't look
quite the same
I don't think anything could prepare you
for what you see when you first go in
his cheeks were very swollen so much so
that his eyes were they look more like
slits his face was just round like a
ball and his stomach was huge
I thought he had had his hands on a
stomach because there was that large
until I realized that his hands were
actually beside him on the bed
it was pretty scary to see somebody you
love suddenly be so disfigured from what
you remember them just a day before
that horrific feeling
the drugs tests that went badly wrong
they thought they were coming here to
take part in relatively routine medical
testing of a new fear have been dealing
with an extremely complicated set of
circumstances once they simply haven't
come across before they are suffering
from a major organ failure the next day
I've just glued to the news and multiple
organ failure their intensive care units
all these emotions you just you didn't
want to think of the worst that could
happen just watching what's unfolding
the girlfriend of one of the victims
says her partner is fighting for his
life experts the news caught wind of
this story partly because that woman
said we looked like the Elephant Man so
everybody wanted to get a glimpse of
these atrocious monsters in the morning
the story was all over the front pages
somebody had used the words Elephant Man
after seeing the swollen face and body
of one of the patients it became a
headline that stuck that was quite lucky
that I know physically III escaped
because I had to perceive her you know
we're all there at the same time in the
same place why am I the lucky one it was
it was like Russian roulette I was oh
you know I was just very fortunate that
what the blanks fell on me there were
people appearing on camera speculating
what this might be what might be going
on when anyone's admitted to intensive
care and as they start to receive all
them support the treatment that we give
them can make them look even more
distressing they can be a shock the
fluid that we give them can make them
swollen because you're giving fluid in
and it's leaking out the cause of it
there's really not the clinical trial
apparently they did pump in a lot of
fluid and it wasn't real until
afterwards um you know talking about it
with people that I realized how swollen
we got and where we received the tag the
elephant in something that the
authorities say is virtually
unprecedented in British medical history
the media interest although very
understandable did add pressure to us
there were comments that this is very
serious they can all die in a very
difficult situation it's unknown
territory treating a reaction to an
untested drug the patient had by now two
doses of steroids but we can tell if the
things we were doing we're going to help
in the long run you give the treatment
that you think is best in this case
everything was deteriorating further
Scotland Yard has also become involved
it's trying to establish if there was
any foul play at all if any of the drugs
had been tampered with in any way
[Music]
on the Tuesday morning there was a phone
call from the special crime unit in the
police
something had gone very much wrong was a
clinical trial a tragedy a crisis
affected the lives of at least six young
men and and and I have never seen
anything like this before
this was treated as a crime scene the
police seized not only the drug that had
been administer but also the placebo
they seized clinical samples blood
samples something could have been
tampered with
sabotage poisoned and that these folk
might have been the the victims of such
foul play
these drugs were seized and held under
the rules of criminal evidence so they
came to us in sealed evidence bags
the first invasive level is that
somebody made a mistake it was the wrong
drug it mislabeled Etling contaminated
with something it was the wrong strength
that the basic pharmaceutical science of
this drug had not been carried out
properly and of course included in that
list of possibilities is a possibility
that someone had deliberately
adulterated this drug these are real
people and we owe it to them and their
families to find out what had gone wrong
this needed to be investigated to save
the lives of six volunteers other
experts already trying to find out why
they want something such extreme
reactions what should have
[Music]
underlying it all this was still a
mystery
we didn't know if this was going to get
more severe or if this was the extent of
it
David was in and out of consciousness
all the time he had enough strength to
sort of squeeze my hand but that was
about it and then he kind of dropped off
again all the doctors could tell her was
that they were doing as much for us as
they could but they had no certainty on
what was going to happen next
I can only you know feel for them
because it must have been a horrible
time especially you know not knowing if
they were going to pull through or not
[Music]
the first round of tests that were
carried out of identity and purity tests
we were able to show very quickly using
the simple chemical test that this was
the right drug it was the right strength
and it wasn't contaminated with anything
else that would have caused this
reaction the next step was to understand
why those preclinical safety tests
hadn't worked
[Music]
six men remain in intensive care this
morning after falling a dangerously ill
while taking part in clinical trials
suddenly on Wednesday morning we were
doing a ward round and we said
something's happened the four patients
who were awake suddenly told us almost
within an hour of each other and I feel
much better suddenly after two days or
so that's when I was I could feel things
were improving his life wasn't on the
line anymore we all seemed to perk up
I remember feeling really hungry and
feeling that I was gonna be safe the
fevers all went down at about the same
time and even the two patients who are
already on ventilators were in
multi-organ failure needing a lot of
support their fevers went down some of
their numbers started getting better the
signs of the underlying information
seemed to be burning out I suppose
everyone felt relief but also we had to
ensure that we weren't going to miss
something in feeling that relief it was
a long way from knowing that they were
completely out of the woods but it was
the first sign we'd had that things
might be turning a corner and it was
striking how it all happened in autumn
simultaneously it was almost like a
switch going off
[Music]
we were taken off the machines the
doctors felt that our organs were back
to her to a state which they could start
doing their job again the intensive care
unit was wonderful
I know there's a few other drug trial
companies out there that are not located
in a major hospital and if I'd been
there when that this had happened wow I
I guess I might not have been so lucky
I'm very proud of the teamwork people
showed everybody and the way the
hospital is a whole responded to the
challenge just a fantastic example of
how people come together when things get
really tough in a very unprecedented
event
I knew that I'd been very ill and I was
still recovering but if it wasn't for
dr. Ganesh and his team which I'm sure
we're all very grateful for making those
decisions it'd be a very different story
we were really lucky to have had the NHS
accompany running a trial our Excel has
apologized to the families concerned at
this early stage it is still difficult
to make a comment about a longer-term
prognosis for all of these patients you
know there are different types of
recovery phases the the blood counts
will start to recover in a different way
over days the liver enzymes will start
to respond in a different way over a
month and even anemia which comes as a
consequence of cytokine storm takes up
to six months to recover so there are
different phases of recovery from
cytokine storm especially one as severe
as this I was watching some TV show
which talked about us why we did it
should we have done it what we should
deserve compensation wise and I thought
I wanted to get solicitors involved
after the trial took place some of the
trial participants wanted some legal
advice as to what they should do next
they were feeling incredibly shocked and
frightened had no idea what the future
held for them at that point there was
the huge concern about cancer and any
autoimmune diseases there was a concern
also that it may impact on their ability
to have children it's quite a stressful
situation really
my organs were back working but I was
like an 80 year old my muscles were just
wasted away what was in the drug or the
storm that created it's supposed to like
attack
yo cells such as bad cells like cancer
and things like that but because we
didn't have anything like that it
started attacking our own tissue
Eero muscle and it just wasted wasted
away our muscles
I definitely remember thinking that
although they say where we could be okay
within three years
there was the concern that we wouldn't
because who knows what's going to happen
there's a chance that all of us end up
with the same illnesses
and then what happens and we had no
immune system at all so we're given
instructions all not to go on the tube
or trains or buses just in case yeah if
someone was to cough near us with some
sort of germs we'd have no way to fight
it off
I knew he was still in intensive care
and I wanted to give him a bit of
support so I went down to say goodbye to
him and he wasn't able to speak so he
was just like you know I remember him
showing his hands and a bit like hey
what about my hands
I saw that his fingers have blackened
and there was no hope for saving their
fingers
I realized that he was certainly in a
worse condition and he'd come off of
this in very bad way and someone was
responsible for that
[Music]
for me one of the most shocking features
off the drug trial was the spacing
between the doses our clients were being
injected with this new monoclonal
antibody in quite quick succession some
of our clients were left actually
starting to experience problems whilst
others were actually just been injected
for the first time that even from a
layman's point of view seems ridiculous
frankly it's another significant concern
they seem to receive the whole drug in
three to six minutes I'm not sure that
the preclinical testing on animals was
done at that pace
[Music]
once the lawyers were involved we ended
up doing a lot more blood tests and so
on to try and figure out you know how is
our body recovering how fast how how
much damage has been done and they
managed they they found a normally in my
blood which as they come which is
something that is quite often appears
prior to a camp cancerous lymphoma cells
appearing it was a big shock because by
that point I thought we were starting to
move on
we got married roughly three months
after the drug trial and of course
normally wasn't winning marriage and you
think about children afterwards and that
was something that I was very worried
about with the fact that having having
this cancer scare and even the effect
you know would the drug hadn't been in
my system is there any chance I could
flow on to the children do you want a
child born and then have the possibility
of their father having cancer or dying
soon after I was very down the worst
down
those findings were that the trial had
been conducted as intended and we had
not discovered anything that was
deliberately or unintentionally wrong
with the way in which that trial had
been been managed our clients felt that
the MHRA report was a report that was
rushed out and unfortunately was a bit
of a whitewash
the MHRA saying that it was
unpredictable is just their way of
passing blame because they're the ones
who said it was an okay trial to do I
believe that the decisions that were
taken were entirely appropriate and
consistent with the current state of
scientific knowledge
and I don't think anybody can be held
responsible for knowing something that
they don't know and they couldn't know
at the time per exhale embarked upon a
medical trial and they were ill-prepared
they didn't have any backup everything
we did had followed protocol if you knew
what was going to happen you wouldn't
need to do it that's why you do trials
they should have had an idea of what to
do think positive things didn't really
start happening to treat us until they
involve the outside community and they
had the answers there were people saying
that was rushed and they didn't feel
that it was happening in a I don't know
a considerate way it was all a barrier
being turned over on with the next one
on with the next one and so we felt
probably felt disgruntled like we were
just cogs in the machine and we were
human guinea pigs and nobody wants to
feel that way
[Music]
we had no scientific or rational
explanation it was dangerous in humans
and completely ineffective in the
monkeys I think the biggest problem with
that study was that three of the
preclinical tests gave an answer which
suggested there wasn't a risk whether
actually was over the next three to four
years we came to understand why we now
of course the macaques and humans are
very similar species the t-cells which
is the particular cell of the immune
system that this drug is supposed to
target have on their surface a molecular
structure called a receptor which binds
to the drug and when the drug binds to
the receptor the cell is stimulated to
respond we also know that the monkey
t-cell receptor and the human reset are
virtually identical but despite the fact
that the monkey t cell binds TGN 1412 it
has a very similar receptor to the
humans it does not respond to the TG n
14 stimulus in the way that the human
t-cell does and it does not stimulate
this kind of t-cell proliferation and
cytokine response in monkeys without an
additional stimulus
this one one might call in a clinical
trials community as an ever event it
should never happen and that's why this
has changed how first in human studies
are done internationally
the independent review was commissioned
by the Secretary of State for health the
findings of the review are really very
interesting in that they recognized and
developed areas where we could improve
our practices
one of the critical recommendations was
that where individuals are receiving a
drug for the first time that drug
shouldn't be given to a number of
volunteers all in the same day there
were other recommendations in relation
to the size of the dose that individuals
should receive clinical trials are
certainly safer than they have ever been
because there is now more attention to
the potential risks
[Music]
the report has been adopted by the
European medical agency and therefore
applied to the whole of Europe so those
are recommendations that have had a long
and hopefully long-lasting effect
[Music]
that was the last first in man trial I
did as doctors we swear to do no harm I
felt guilty every day for years I'd like
to look them in the eye and say sorry
[Music]
summing up the whole period that whole
vegetables had time I would just simply
say I was unlucky I but but it didn't
kill me and that's pretty good
[Music]
we have three kids now having my first
child with the fact that there's a
chance we might not have been able to
have kids made it even more special
[Music]
I think one of the things for me is that
I'm glad to have been part of something
that has reformed the whole industry and
the child has made me realize that life
is quite precious and that we need to
make the most of it really and have a
sort of healthy mindset about being
alive
I think medical trial trials are very
important and it's to advance our
knowledge of Medicine and it's it's not
really until you have a loved one that
is that is really sick and could be
dying and they're saved by a drug which
has obviously went through this sort of
drug trial initially and do you fully
appreciate how important those things
are
[Music]